#Gear Up Pre-Work

1. *What role does empathy play in your life and how has it helped you?*  
> I returned from Japan to live with my parents after ten years of being outside of the household. My father and I often had arguments in the first three months. After a particularly difficult and tension filled family dinner, I knew something needed to change. This type of constant fighting was not healthy. I thought about the changes my father was currently struggling through: covid enforced closures of his company's factory, him having to work from home for the first time in his life, his adult daughter moving back to live with him, a stock market on the fritz, and his wife's physical struggles. Dad was dealing with a lot. By taking a moment to sit back and see it from his point of view and really listen, radically listen, our arguments became less and less. I also noticed during that time, my father also began making adjustments for living with me as well. Me taking the time to be empathetic also allowed my father to take the time to be empathetic and allowed us to communicate with one another and live together without constant fighting. 

2. *How does empathy help you build better software?*  
> We need to build software accessible for all people. People who primarily use their phone to surf the internet. People who use screen readers. People who are unfamiliar with technology. People with slow internet. But the only was to build that software is to participate in radical listening when speaking with and surverying these very consumers. Curosity through empathy allows us to observe necessary changes without always being explicity told a change needs to be made. Empathy connects the software developer to the consumer using the product rather than a product-oriented focus which makes improvements for the sake of product improvements. When improvements or development of software uses the consumer as a way to view the product (empathy) we are able to create a product that can positively impact the lives of others.  

3. *Why is empathy imporant for working on a team?*  
> On a team, the hope is everyone will bring a different perspective to the table. Unless each team member takes the time to participate in radical listening, then the *huge* benefit of having a diverse team is not utilized. To miss an oppertunity to empathize with your coworkers doesn't just affect how well you may or may not work with some people, but it will also affect the consumers who use the product your team developed. Being curious towards team members prespectives creates a line of communication which can allow for more productive and smooth working environment. 

4. *Describe a situation in which your ability to empathize with a colleague or teammate was helpful.*  
> Ms. Chikura was the English head of my school. She wasn't the English teacher, but rather she managed the English cirriculum and expectations. I worked closely with her for three years adjusting and improving the English lessons and structures. She moved to my school a year after I had established myself. The board of education had tremendous expectations for her due to her better than average English speaking abilities. The first year was a whirlwind of adujusting to a new school. The second year included additional pressure from the principal and increasing tensions between her and I. It culminated during an uncomfortable display of anger on her part during class with a sixth grade class. Knowing that for us to successfully work together, something needed to change: immediately. Despite continuous attempts  at verbal communication, we kept experiencing breakdowns. I noticed, though, she would leave notes or memos often on my desk. I asked her to write me a letter about how I can improve or any problems she has noticed. Creating a little distance in which she could feel more comfortable to express herself and for me to digest what she was saying allowed us to radically "read". I was empathetic to her situation: her superiors were pressuring her for results when she wasn't given any specific instructions on how to perform. I wanted to make her situation easier because it would also help mine. I didn't want to go into work dreading every class I had with her! Empathetizing with my colleague was helpful for not only our relationship, but those around us. We were able to communicate the English language goals and transition the school into the new style of teaching expected by the Japanese government. 

5. *When do you find most difficult to be empathetic in professional settings? How can you improve your skills when faced with these scenarios?*  
> There have been times in which I've been critiqued in a professional, yet public setting that cause me to feel uncomfortable and embaressed. It is during those times that I want to walk away, hide away, and not listen to whatever else I was being told because I felt so ashamed. It takes incredible fortitude for me to stand there and nod, let alone participate in a conversation or radical listening. The times that I've engaged in radical listening during those moments were possibly the most constructive periods of my professional career. I know that by forcing myself in those situations again and again will allow me to continue to grow even though it's incredibly uncomfortable. Additionally, changing my mindset about these moments of professional critique will allow me to focus and improve relationships. I need to start replacing words like, "Oh, no, I did something wrong, something bad" I want to think "Okay, great, how can I improve" or "Ok, what is it that he/she is actually asking for?" 